So let's see what we can do with Docker Kitematic and take a look at how we
can install it and then from there use it to search images,
pull those images down to our machine, and even run containers.
So the first thing we'll want to do is go to this GitHub URL,
github.com/docker/kitematic/releases It's important to note that
you can get Kitematic through Docker Toolbox,
but if you want the latest version of Kitematic,
you would want to go to here.
Now once I've done that, I can download for Mac, Ubuntu.
I can download for Windows as you can see. We'll do Windows in this case.
And once this is done, we can open it,
and you'll notice I have a bunch of files in here.
So from here,
it's really just a matter of extract these to a folder of your choosing.
So I'm just going to select all these.
We'll go ahead and copy these. And I'm going to go to my
desktop for this case and just put a folder here.
We'll call it Kitematic.
But you, of course,
can put this wherever you like, and then we'll paste these in.
All right, now from here, we just need to find the exe,
and you'll see that right here, Kitematic.exe.
So we'll go ahead and click this.
You may be prompted with a message.
Just click on More info if you're on Windows. I'm going to hit Run anyway.
It just doesn't know what this program is.
And here we go.
So from here, I could log in to Docker Hub if I had a Docker Hub account,
which I do, but you may not.
So we're not going to worry about that.
You could sign up though if you'd like and get an account, and this would
allow you to store your images, your Docker images, up in Docker Hub. Now
I'm going to hit Skip For Now. Once Kitematic is up, now it's on us to find
the image that we'd actually like to run. So we could choose a Hello World
Nginx, Ghost for blogging,
Jenkins, Redis. You can even do a Minecraft server if you'd like
if you have the client and on and on and on.
So you'll see there's a lot of different options. Now I'm
going to go ahead and just type Nginx here.
And there's the Hello World.
But I'm going to go get the official Nginx right here. And notice
if I hit ..., I can get a little bit of info.
So I can get what the selected tag I want to do is. We could filter.
I'm going to go ahead and just leave the latest here,
but notice I can pick different versions of it.
That's kind of nice.
And then to actually download the image and run it, we can just hit Create here.
Now this is going to go off to Docker Hub and download the Nginx image.
This will be the latest version.
Now that that's downloaded,
it's going to go ahead and actually start up the container
now. And then once this is all ready to go,
then we can actually use this to call it.
Now notice up top, it says it's running.
I could stop it, restart it, exec into it, we'll learn
about what that is later in the course,
even view documentation about. If we click on this, it will take us up to
Docker Hub. And you can see that we can get information about Nginx.
Here's some of the different versions we have.
If we scroll on down, we'll even see how to use it from the command line.
Now what's nice about this though is that with Kitematic we can do
all this without actually typing the command.
So let's go back to Kitematic now.
And if I come on over to Settings,
notice I can get some general information. So we can get some environment
variables it's using in the container, the host name and ports. So it looks
like there's a port 80 running in the container,
but we can call 32769 to actually call it from outside through the browser,
for example. We'll learn later about something called volumes, this
one doesn't have any. Networking, we'll talk about what bridge
networks are, and even some advanced features.
Let's come on back to the ports though,
and I'm going to copy this. And then let's run to the browser here, and
we'll go to this localhost 32769. And there we go.
And now we have Nginx up and running.
What's great about this is number 1, we really didn't
have to know anything about Docker.
We could just use Kitematic to help get us started.
But number 2, it makes it really easy to start these containers, restart them,
stop them, delete them, and I'll show you some of that right now.
So let's go back to Kitematic, and let's just go back to home here.
So first off, we can see that the browser hit it.
Notice we have some logs here.
And then from here, I could stop it.
We could start it back up.
Notice it's running again.
We could restart it. We can shell into it or exec into it.
That opens a command prompt here, and now I could do things
like show me all the files and folders. And then you
already saw we can view the docs.
Let me go ahead and stop it though.
Here it is.
And then notice, we have a little X here.
If I hit that, we can now remove it. And there we go, it's gone.
So that's an example of some of the fundamentals of
getting started with Kitematic.
Now I mentioned earlier, we're not going to be using
this throughout the rest of the course.
We're going to learn how to do the actual commands. But it's a great
way to get started and play with Docker images and containers and see how you can get started using them.